.\" SCCS ID: xfpager.man 1.2.7 18/03/1998
.TH XFce 1F "Olivier Fourdan"
.SH NAME
XFCE \- XFce Pager
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B xfpager [desks]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
xfpager is the pager for XFwm
.PP
xfpager must be started from XFwm's config or from XFce using the keyword "Module"
to work with XFwm properly.
.PP
From XFce menus :
.sp
Module xfpager
.fi
Or from XFwm configuration file :
.nf
.sp
AddToFunc "InitFunction"
+              "I" Module xfpager
.sp
.PP
.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
Add these options to your default XFwm configuration file 
(ie sample.xfwmrc, system.xfwmrc, $HOME/.xfwmrc)

.IP "*xfpager.geometry \fIgeometry\fP"
Specifies the pager windows location and geometry, in standard X11 notation. 

.IP "*xfpager.icongeometry \fIgeometry\fP"
Specifies a size (optional) and location (optional) for the pager's icon 
window. 

.IP "*xfpager.font \fIfont-name\fP"
Specified a font to use to label the desktops.  If \fIfont_name\fP is
"none" then no desktop labels will be displayed.

.IP "*xfpager.smallfont \fIfont-name\fP"
Specified a font to use to label the window names in the pager. If not
specified, the window labels will be omitted. 

.IP "*xfpager.label \fIdesk label\fP"
Assigns the text \fIlabel\fP to desk \fIdesk\fP in the pager window.
Useful for assigning symbolic names to desktops, ie
.nf
.sp
*xfpager.label 1 One
*xfpager.label 2 Two
*xfpager.label 3 Three
*xfpager.label 4 Four
.sp
.fi
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
xfce, xfwm
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
xfpager is based on FvwmPager from :
.PP
Robert Nation 
.PP
Copyright 1994, Robert Nation. No guarantees or warantees or anything
are provided or implied in any way whatsoever. Use this program at your
own risk. Permission to use this program for any purpose is given,
as long as the copyright is kept intact.
.PP
DeskColor patch contributed by Alan Wild
.PP
XFce/XFwm is written by :
.PP
Olivier Fourdan (fourdan@xfce.org)
.PP
.B  This software (XFce/XFwm) is absolutely free of charge. Can be distributed 
.B freely, but mention original name and author if modified.
.PP  
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR (O. FOURDAN) BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN 
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
.P
